Hello and welcome to our tutorial.
So in the previous tutorials within the day pre-processing step and then we train our a priori model
and the data set with a minimum support of 0.03 0.3 percent and a minimum confidence of 40 percent.
And now we did the job and we are finally getting to the exciting step which is to visualize the results
.
That is to look at the rules explicitly.
We're going to have the list of the strongest rules and we will eventually know how to place the products
to optimize the sales.
OK so let's do it without waiting.
This will actually be very easy as well we will only need one line.
But before we write that line let's jump back to the a priori algorithm intuition slide to see the steps
we already did in the algorithm and what steps we need to do left.
OK so step one was to set the minimum support and confidence that was done here.
We set the minimum support here of 0.3 percent and the minimum confidence of 40 percent.
That's not our final word.
We might need to change the confidence again that we did the first half anyway.
And then the second step is to take all the subsets introns actions having higher support than the minimum
0.3 percent support.
Okay.
So Step 2 was actually completed when we trained a priori on our dataset.
So the function itself.
And that's the same for Step three.
Step three is to take all the rules of these subsets that have a higher supports than 0.3 percent.
And so we need to take all the rules of the subsets that have higher confidence than this minimum confidence
of 40 percent.
And so again this was completed when we trained the a priori model on a data set.
Thanks to this a priori function.
OK.
So Step three done.
And now we're finally getting to step four.
And that's the step that will lead us to the visualization of the results.
So this Step Four is to sort the rules by their decreasing lift.
As Carol explains intuition to toil to lift is the best metric to measure the relevance of a row.
So that's why we're sorting the rules by their left rather than their confidence or their support.
So that's what we're going to do in this single line of code.
And to do this we're going to use the inspect function.
So we type here inspect and so in this inspect function we can directly have a look at the rules by
typing rules here.
And then you know if we want to have a look at the first 10 rules we need to specify here in brackets
one in 10.
So here we will get the first 10 rows.
Well that's not very interesting because this will just give us the 10 first rules found by our pretty
remodeled so that's not going to be the rules.
Having the highest lifts that is the most relevant rules.
So that's why right now we need to sort the rules to get Indeed the 10 first rules that have the 10
highest lifts.
So let's do this we need to add another function here which is the sort function which obviously is
used to sort any table by a decreasing or increasing variable.
So actually the first argument of this sort function is rules that contains all the rules found by our
priori model and then the second argument is by which tells by what we want to sort the rules.
And of course we want to sort the rules by their left.
So here we'll add by equals and then left and we keep this one content here to get the 10 first rule
that have the 10 highest left.
All right so that's actually ready we are ready to visualize the results.
That is to clearly see what the rules are what the strongest rules are.
OK so let's execute this.
And here we go.
All right that's Thoreau's as I told you we get very explicit and clear rules.
The first rule is if people buy mineral water and whole wheat pasta they will also buy olive oil in
40 percent of the cases.
And the second rule is if people buy spaghetti and tomato sauce they will also buy ground beef and 48
percent of the cases.
Then if people buy french fries and Herb and pepper They will also buy ground beef in 46 percent of
the cases.
So that's how the rules work.
That's how they are presented thanks to this package.
And so these are the first 10 rules with the 10 highest lifts.
However do you see something that is not necessarily very relevant here.
Well if we have a better look at these rules we can notice that some products are present in a set of
items not because they make a good association but because they have a high support.
A good example of this is the chocolate here.
This set of items composed of chocolate and herbal pepper corresponds to some customers that bought
chocolate and Herb and pepper in their basket and according to this rule.
Well these customers also buy ground beef in 44 percent of the cases.
But the thing is they don't want to buy ground beef because they have some chocolate in their basket
in the first place.
Again that doesn't make any sense but it's not because the confidence is too low this time it's because
the chocolate has a very high support.
We can see that here chocolate is the fifth product most chased by these French customers in the south
of France and therefore this product chocolate here falls in a lot of baskets and especially in this
basket number six here composed of chocolate and Herb and pepper as well as this basket number seven
here composed of chocolate mineral water and shrimp.
And by the way in this same basket there is mineral water that also falls in this eight's basket here
.
And that's because mineral water is the most pre-Chase product in the store.
So of course it's falling in a lot of baskets.
So these products have high support.
However this doesn't mean that we have to change the support now because first we still want to validate
our first business point which was to conserve only the products that are bought at least three or four
times a day.
But what might be helpful to change now is the confidence because indeed we asked for the rules that
have at least a 40 percent confidence you can see that all the rules here have confidence over 40 percent
.
And the reason the rules have high confidence is because the rules are associated to the baskets that
contain the most pre-Chase products in the store because of course if the baskets contain the most purchase
products in the store.
Well these products will get together in the baskets and it won't be because of some association rules
related to this principle.
People who bottled so but it will be because simply the baskets contain the most purchased product overall
.
So in order to avoid this the first idea would be to change the support but we don't want to change
our business related starting points you know to consider the products pre-Chase at least three or four
times a day.
So the other idea that remains left is of course to change to confidence because if you reduce the confidence
now.
Well we won't get the specific rules that exist because they're associated to the most pre-Chase products
that fall in the same basket.
But we will get the most relevant rules that we are looking for and that are related to this principle
.
People who bought also bought.
So that's what we're going to do right now.
We're going to change the confidence well reduce that.
And what we're going to do is what we already did the first time.
You know remember we had a confidence of 0.8 that gave us no rule and then we divided it by two to obtain
this confidence of 0.4 that gave us this rules related to the most pre-Chase products.
So now we're going to do the same and divided confidence by two again to get a confidence of 20 percent
and that should lead us to some more relevant rules that are related to the association rules that we're
looking for related to the principle people who bottles were bought.
OK.
So let's do it.
Let's try these new rules because by selecting this line in executing it the apriori model will be trained
again.
And so we will get some new rules.
So let's do it execute.
And here it is.
OK.
First of all we get a lot more calls we get 1348 wells and that's expected of course because since we
reduced the confidence down to 0.2.
Well of course the algorithm found a lot more rules but don't worry we will not have a look at the 1344
rules.
We will still look at the 10 rules with the 10 highest lifts and that's what we're going to do right
now by selecting this line and execute it.
And here are the new rules.
Okay.
So let's have a look.
The first rule is if people buy mineral water and whole wheat pasta they will buy olive oil in 40 percent
of the cases.
OK.
So that's a rule that makes a lot of sense even if there is still mineral water.
But you know it's still a rule that makes sense because you know this might be related to some people
who are looking to have some healthy meals with mineral water.
Whole wheat pasta.
And of course Olive oil is very healthy as well.
So these go well together.
And actually this is kind of a relevant rule of all should be placed not too far from whole wheat pasta
.
OK then the second rule is if people buy frozen vegetables milk mineral water then they will buy soup
and 27 percent of the cases.
Again this is a rule that actually makes sense.
Still related to the need of having healthy meals and milk can go quite well with soup.
Well I know this is the case for French people French people do tend to put some milk in their soup
.
And oh by the way speaking of French tradition this is typically what French people love.
Absolutely.
For much along with honey.
So for much more for those of you who don't know it's kind of some carraige cheese I invite you to look
at Wikipedia.
But anyway this goes very well with honey you know in a lot of French restaurants you will find from
us along with honey in the desserts menu but people also make this at their place.
So that's kind of a very good association rule even if prematch blog is very different than honey.
Well these two products associate very well and you know the direction counts here because if we want
to buy from us then we want to buy honey because honey goes very well on to from us blow.
But if we buy honey we don't necessarily want to buy from us because we don't want to have for much
more in our honey.
It's rather we want to have honey on our blog and not from us on our honey.
All right.
And then what do we have we have if people buy spaghetti and tomato sauce.
They want to buy ground beef.
Well that makes a lot of sense.
That's of course to make some spaghetti the.
All right so interesting quite classic you know we don't need a machine learning algorithm to find out
about this rule but you know it's actually what French people love associating in their basket.
So of course the ground beef shouldn't be too far from the spaghetti and the tomato sauce.
And then this rule if people buy like cream they will buy chicken and 29 percent of the cases.
So not necessarily obvious.
You know if the manager of the store had to place the product itself without any algorithm this manager
would not have necessarily thought to place the chicken next to the like cream.
And you know if we try to explain this rule it's probably because you know people who buy some light
cream want to pay attention to what they eat.
And so since chicken is a lighter meat and maybe healthier meat than red meat like ground beef.
Well if they buy like cream and want to associate it with some meat well they would rather choose chicken
that's you know if we try to explain the rules with some good sense and then what do we have we have
if people buy past they will buy as collodion 37 percent of the cases.
Well why not that goes well together well that's simply what French people in the south of France love
to eat in their meals.
And maybe that's also related to French taste that French people associate like cream with chicken.
If we were in India it would probably have been better here for you know but a chicken which is a very
good Indian meal.
OK and then we have French fries and Herb and pepper that go very well with ground beef of course.
That's a classic French meal then cereals spaghetti ground beef.
OK.
That's a rule that doesn't make much sense and maybe it's due to the same logic that I was explaining
earlier that is that you know a lot of people like cereals that a lot of people buy spaghetti so spaghetti
and cereals often fall in the same basket.
And since a lot of people associate spaghetti with ground beef Well we find this rule if people buy
cereals and spaghetti they will buy ground beef.
So let's be careful with this one.
Cereals is not necessarily associated to ground beef but you know we can investigate further.
OK.
And then we have these last two rules that people buy frozen vegetables mineral water and soup.
They're likely to buy milk.
And 60 percent of the cases.
Well this was probably related to two facts.
First the fact that milk goes very well with soup for French people and also because you know all this
looks very healthy.
So that goes quite well together.
And then the rest rules French fries and ground beef that go very well with her and pepper.
Yes because of course here we have French fries and herbal pepper that lead to ground beef.
Well of course an association rules the other direction can sometimes be true and that's exactly the
case here.
Here we have if people buy ground beef and French fries they also buy herb and pepper.
That's kind of a triangle association rules here that we observe with the three sides of the triangle
being French fries ground beef and Herb and pepper.
So that's quite common but it's not always the case to observe the two directions.
OK.
So that's definitely very helpful for the store.
Now thanks to these rules we can experience a new placement of the products here.
We can also look at the 21st rules with the 21st lifts.
We won't do it now because we get the point here.
However what we can do is you know we actually try another support.
We tried three values for the confidence which we only tried one value of the support.
And remember we had this hypothesis.
I'm in this business starting point when we said that we wanted to conserve the products that are bought
at least three or four times a day.
Well this support here 0.03 is related to the business starting point of considering products that are
bought at least three times a day.
Then what if we consider turn out products that are bought at least four times a day.
So that's what we're going to do right now.
This is the only other support value that we're going to try.
So let's try this.
Remember the computer that leads to the supports If we consider products that are bought at least four
times a day then on average these products will be bought four times seven times a week.
And then in order to get the support we need to divide it by the total number of transactions which
is seven thousand five hundred.
Right.
So let's see what we get we get a minimum support of 0 point oh thirty 37.
So this time if we round it we get a minimum support of 0.04.
So let's try this one 0.04 that corresponds to products that are purchased at least four times a day
instead of three previously.
So let's try and you Priore model again to obtain the new rules.
So I'm going to execute this and we get the new rules and since we increased the support we find a smaller
number of rules.
Eight hundred and eleven rules compared to previously you know we had more than 1000 rules.
That's because we increased the support and kept the same 20 percent confidence.
Okay.
So now let's have a look at these new rules ordered by their decreasing left.
So let's execute this.
And here are the new rules.
Okay very interesting first by increasing the support and therefore excluding some products that have
supports between 0.03 and 0.04.
Well remember this first rule if people buy light cream they will also buy chicken.
Well this rule now became the top four.
That's definitely a great rule to cancer and chicken should definitely be close to lifestream again
than we have.
If people buy past that they buy as Cologne.
Well we also had this rule before.
However we have a new rule here.
If people buy pasta they will also buy shrimp.
Yes of course this is the South of France.
People are close to the sea.
Well either the Mediterranean Sea or the Atlantic Ocean and of course people love associating shrimp
with their pastor.
That's a very common and exquisite meal in the south of France.
And then what we have we have if people buy eggs and ground beef they are likely to buy herbal pepper
in 20 percent of cases.
Well of course Bieber is very good on both eggs and ground beef.
And then we have the same kind of rules as before except for this new rule here French people love to
associate mushroom cream sows with cologne.
So indeed a very good meal.
Mushroom cream sauce goes very well with Club.
OK.
So interesting new rules that we have seen when we increase the support so the manager of the store
now should you know experience this new rules that we observe here by placing the new products of these
rules next to each other than experience for a few weeks and then observe the impact on the sales.
How much does sales increase how much the revenue increases and then see if the business goals are achieved
.
And if that's the case try to strengthen the rules or try some more powerful rules by changing the support
and confidence or on the other hand if the business goals are not achieved well same we can try to get
some new by increasing the confidence and maybe the support.
Well that's all related to experience that's what data analysts and managers do in retail stores whether
they are online stores or grocery stores or any kind of stores.
Well they used these association rules and I them.
And of course combined these rules with other recommendation system techniques like collaborative filtering
with you know the user profiles that can add some additional relevant info and also other more advanced
techniques like the neighborhood model latent factor morals.
Well they combine a lot of models to increase the sales and the revenue.
But here you have a very good technique very powerful technique.
Association rules.
So congratulations for having implemented this first recommendation system in some way.
And I really hope this will be useful for your business and your work and don't hesitate if you have
any questions about this.
We will answer your questions very quickly.
So that was the a priori algorithm.
I was very happy to build this model with you.
Congratulations again.
Now in the next section we're going to implement the Ekla algorithm which is very close to the apiary
algorithm but much more simple.
So that's another very good solution if you want to be very efficient and don't have too much time to
experience different values of the support and the confidence because indeed you will see that there
is no confidence parameter in the Ekla algorithm.
So I look forward to building this new association rule model with you in the next section and sell
them in Germany learning